[Applause]
so I'm an industrial designer which
means I create all those cool things
from ideas that we surround ourselves or
in this case with geeky people surround
themselves with for the most part and I
have absolutely no background in biology
chemistry or engineering so bear with me
because I'll be talking about biomedical
engineering today and please do stay
here in the meantime
Industrial Design is about making lots
of things identical and the downside
about that is that there's something
impersonal about lots of identical
things because when you're trying to
design one thing for one person to solve
one issue you can't really do that when
you're making things aimed more to a
demographic model or to a marketing
requirements document which is what we
live by so I got disheartened by the
whole process in general and when to
rethink it and redesign designing all
together went way back to my early early
design inspirations and back to about
eight years old and that got me to this
guy and anyone here from MIT knows him
or has a tattoo or a poster of him
somewhere anyone else in the room just
for a hint he's the engineer of engineer
or the designer of designers he's the
guy who made bionics a household word in
the form of the polyester clad six
million dollar man that I grew up with
there and the thing that came from this
pop culture show the real take away was
two main things if you're designing for
the person for a real person you don't
settle for the minimum functional
requirements you see how far beyond that
you can go where the rewards really are
way out in the fringe of how far past
that document you can go and if you can
nail that you stand to improve the
quality of life for somebody for every
moment for the rest of their life
so I try kind of distill that down into
a design philosophy and infuse that into
the studio that I have now and try to
kind of get everyone to think along
these lines and it's not a profound
philosophy but it works for us
and it's we work with prosthetic limbs
and the first thing you see about
prosthetic limbs is that they are
engineering brilliant
they can do amazing things they can
return all kinds of functionality and
performance back to somebody's life but
from the Vantage of an industrial
designer they're not quite there what we
don't see is the sculpture or the beauty
or the individual qualities or the
uniqueness or the they the elegance to
them they are brilliant mechanical
utilitarian devices and that's great
except for a lot of people that that
doesn't work people come to our studio
all the time and they have bubble wrap
and duct tape trying to approximate to
their original form or they'll have a
gym sock stuffed with other gym socks to
try to recreate the shape that once was
and that to us is not thriving the body
to us is not a mechanical entity where
mechanical only solutions can address
them it's something it's our personal
sculpture it's our kinematic sculpture
it is our canvas it represents not just
our physicality but also a lot of our
personality as well and so when you're
designing for the body maybe the thing
isn't to design for mass production but
to design with the body in mind to
really think about curves instead of
hard geometry or uniqueness instead of
identical and the problem is that we're
constrained by mass production which
makes a million identical things but
can't make one unique individualized
thing so we scrapped that in the new
design process and we start with the
person this is a three-dimensional
scanner and that's what happens when you
scan some do you get three-dimensional
data that you get into your computer now
you can take the sound side limb they're
the surviving limb mirrored over and
from now on anything the process will
recreate symmetry something is as
personal and it's hard to achieve as
symmetry in the body and you create a
product that no matter what is going to
be as unique as their fingerprint and in
fact our process is incapable of
creating two identical things so we run
it through computer modeling 3d CAD and
here we actually infuse a lot of the
design the individuals taste and
personality into it everywhere we can
and we three dimensionally print the
results we call the resulting parts
fairings because they're named after
that the panels on a motorcycle that
turned it from a mechanical thing into a
sculptural thing and so we tried this on
Chad and Chad is competitive soccer
player
lost his leg eight years ago to cancer
and you can imagine it's really tricky
to play soccer when you have titanium
pipe where there used to be a leg and so
the resulting parts recreated his shape
and deliberately had an aesthetic that
looked like sporting gear it we want to
make it look like you just pulled it out
of the gym bag so it's fairly fairly
utilitarian in that regard two things
happened one week spected his sense of
his body came back to him he's suddenly
able to control the ball to feel the
ball because his body remembered that
original shape that he had had up until
eight years ago the other thing though
is that the other members of the team
stopped thinking of him as the amputee
on the team not that they didn't know
but it stopped becoming a focal point
for him and there's a certain very quiet
value in that that that we like to
believe James lost his leg in a
motorcycle crash and the motorcycle
still a big part of James's personality
and style check out the tattoo on his
forearm
we three dimensionally printed that into
what would be his calf so he has his
tattoo he has his morphology and he has
the materials of his motorcycle and the
result is kind of interesting in that
you can't really tell for his glance
where the motorcycle stops and where
James starts it's kind of a Camaro
hybrid between the two and and that
James likes that so we don't ever try to
make something look like it could be
human our whole goal is to be
unapologetically man-made to take what's
already there morphology and just make
it really cool and beautiful make it
something that somebody can't wait to
show the world because that changes
their look you don't look at him and say
he's an amputee with a prosthetic you
say he's a guy with something really
cool going on
Deborah wanted her curves back but she
also just wanted what came out of it to
be really sexy which is great for us to
hear we created this lace pattern that
lends itself well to three-dimensional
printing and created the first leg I
think where the lace defines the contour
of the leg instead of the leg giving
form to the lace so we kind of switch
things over what I like about this shot
is you can see daylight through it so
we're not trying to hide anything the
load-bearing carbon component is totally
visible
we're just giving it form and shape and
contours that were hers to begin with we
made her another leg that matched her
purse just because we could
and we made another one where we laser
tattooed the leather because how cool
would it be to be able to change your
tattoos out from one minute to the next
I love that we're trying to capture as
much as somebody's personality as we can
this is George his will be finished next
week and this is this is the garage
computer data that we deal with he's
kind of a classic timeless type
personality and so we did herringbone
tweed but in in polished nickel and it
was all too proud to show his tattoos
and so we are laser tattooing those into
the leather and part of it is yes we're
showing off because we can do this but
the other part is this connects him to
what will be a part of him and there's
something really valuable we believe in
that tattoos are especially exciting for
us what happens if you take the tattoo
which is a combination of somebody's
personal taste and choice and their
morphology but now let's say you remove
the person so now you get free-floating
tattoo defining their body so everything
we do is about recreating and expressing
something that means something to that
person and expressing that through what
will be their body whether it's speed or
attitude or bling whatever it is that
captures and suggests them in the best
way that we can so back to the 3d
printing thing in this whole process now
we have a process that lends itself to
making one thing per person very
individual and it actually really lends
itself well to complexity so why not
just print the entire leg so that's
actually the concept that preceded the
work that we're doing now this is a
three dimensionally printed leg it's
symmetric to the other leg it is made in
America it is trivially low carbon
footprint to create curbside recyclable
cost about four thousand dollars to
create it is dishwasher-safe
there's a value to that - people don't
think about that all then but yes throw
in the dishwasher works just great this
was based on the original idea that I
could go anywhere in the world with
nothing more than a camera laptop
computer used the camera as a 3d scanner
and create for somebody in a matter of
hours a very high-quality
three-dimensional imprinted leg for a
very low cost the proof of concept works
great
we're refining it we'll get there or we
up the the quality of the materials and
created this for John now the fun thing
with John's leg here is that when his
fiancee looked at this she kind of joked
and she said I like that leg better than
that leg and it's it's a joke I mean she
knows full well what he goes through but
at the same time there's something very
valuable he turned to us and he said
nobody says that he's never heard that
in his life there's something that that
connected with him very deeply so we
like to think that this is a new type of
design where you're kind of turning the
original process on its head where
there's a dialogue that forms between
the designer and the end user where the
designer relinquishes some of the
control designers a hate doing that and
is instead as a curator of a process and
the end user relinquishes their body
into the process and their taste and I
like to think this speaks to a greater
change that's happening in the design
world altogether and in this case one
where products will be evaluated on how
well they address the individual and
that the individual will actually be
part of the DNA of the product the end
product itself and where we'll be
evaluating products on how well they
address a person a unique person instead
of a demographic model and this all
really hit home for us in one of the
first legs we did when Chad here put on
the leg reach down and felt it and
thought about it for a while and he
turned to us and he said that's the
first time I felt that shape in eight
years and so we thought about that and
for all the technology and all the
nights and energy we put into it like
that's really all we wanted to hear
Thanks
you
[Applause]
[Music]